---
layout: post
title: What's new in version 2.7? A brand new Material Theme Wizard!
tags: [whatsnew, wizard]
category: [release]
toc: true
comments: true
maxwords: 70

---

The version 2.7 hasn't brought a lot of changes, but instead was more focused on bringing new and existing users to discover all the features the plugin has to offer, with the help of a **Wizard**.

### Background

Since version 2.5, we've added analytics to the plugin to better understand users' behavior with the plugin. And the results of this study was that most of the users were using the default settings. There are two reasons of such results, which are either:
- Users were fine with the default settings, which is fine since it is the main selling point of the plugin; or:
- Users did not bother meddling with the settings nor reading the documentation, which explain why a lot of users never heard about accent color or even the Material Theme Switcher.

As a result, we've started to wonder how to make users more aware of the different features of the plugin. Documentation helps, but clearly <strike>nobody</strike> not many people read the documentation, so we've ruled it out. Then I remembered that IntelliJ products show a wizard at the first start, helping people discover features and plugins. If there was a way to use it to display the plugin features, it would be great for new as well as existing users. And after a bit of investigation, I've figured it out and started building the **Material Theme Wizard**.


### Wizard

{% include figure.html content="/screens/wizard/welcomeStep.png" caption="Material Wizard" %}

This wizard will show for all users, existing and new, but will only show once at the start of the application. Whenever you decide to follow it or to close it, it will not show up again unless you click on the Material Wizard action in the Material Toolbar.

{% include figure.html content="/screens/materialWizard.png" caption="Material Wizard Action" %}

You can go step by step or click on `Skip all remaining defaults` to close the wizard and keep your current settings.

The wizard consists of only four steps that showcase the most important features of the plugin:
- Themes
- Contrast modes
- Accent color
- Most useful options

#### Themes

{% include figure.html content="/screens/wizard/themesStep.png" caption="Theme Selection" %}

This step will showcase the different [themes]({{site.baseurl}}/docs/configuration/settings#material-themes) offered by the plugin, along with a screenshot of what the IDE will look like.

#### Contrast

{% include figure.html content="/screens/wizard/contrastStep.png" caption="Contrast Modes" %}

This step displays the different [contrast modes]({{site.baseurl}}/docs/configuration/main-settings#contrast-mode) of the plugin. You can select either of them or both of them.

#### Accent Color

{% include figure.html content="/screens/wizard/accentStep.png" caption="Accent Color" %}

Here you can select the [accent color]({{site.baseurl}}/docs/configuration/accents) used by the components of the IDE. A preview of some components is available to see how they will display with the selected color.

#### Plugin Settings

{% include figure.html content="/screens/wizard/settingsStep.png" caption="Plugin Settings" %}

The last step is showing a list of the most used options of the plugin along with a short description of what they do.

### Conclusion

{% include figure.html content="/screens/wizard/finishStep.png" caption="Finish Step" %}

This last "step" is finalizing the wizard by offering users to restart to fully apply the settings. It is also presenting links for the documentation or for supporting the plugin via the available options.

That's it, you've configured the plugin! You can check other options in the settings page or run the wizard again from the Material Toolbar.

Hope this will help people :)
