---
layout: post
title: What's new in version 2.9?
tags: [whatsnew]
category: [release]
toc: true
comments: true
maxwords: 40

---

Version 2.9 is another big update in the release timeline, as it is a complete refactor of the **Icon Replacement** framework feature, as well as redesigning all icons from PNG to SVG!

The highlights of this update are:
- Revamped the _Icon Replacement framework_, allowing it to finally customize all icons, even those from external plugins!
- Reworked all icons to their **SVG equivalent**
- Occasionally replaced some icons to others better reflecting their feature
- Separated the _Material Icons_ option to _Material UI Icons_ and _Material File Icons_, allowing them to live independently of the other
- Added icons for `CLion`, `AppCode`, `PyCharm`, `RubyMine`, `Gradle`, `Maven`, `Grunt`, `Gulp`, `Tasks`...
- Added new **file icons**: Arduino, Assembly, Authors, Ballerina, Crystal, CSSMap, Dotjs, DTS, Favicon, Firebase, Flash, Gatsby, Gemfile, Po, JSMap, MJML, Nimble, Raml, Razor, Redux Actions/Stores/Reducers, Smarty, Solidity, Sonar, Stencil, Storybook, Wallaby
- Added new **folder icons**: benchmarks, coverage, controllers, debug, excluded, expo, jinja, less, maven, messages, models, plugin, python, react, redux, routes, scripts, sublime, sync, tasks
- Improved _Monokai Pro_ syntax
- Added support for _Night Owl Theme_ custom keywords
- Added IDs to the plugin components
- Other bug fixes and improvements


## Improved Monokai Pro Syntax

Plugin users reported that the bundled Monokai Pro theme and color scheme did not reflect the original [Monokai Pro](https://www.monokai.pro/) colors. In version 2.8 this has been corrected by deprecating the _Material Monokai Pro_ theme and revamping the original Monokai Pro scheme, but still, the colors were not completely 1:1 with the original colors.

This version fixes this by using the same colors used by the Monokai Pro colors in VSCode. Additionally, the Monokai Pro theme's colors have been fixed as well, such as the selection color and the button color. Even the font has been changed. Now it looks better than ever!

{% include figure.html content="/monokaiProColors.png" caption="Monokai Pro Colors" %}

----

----

## Night Owl Theme custom keywords

If you aren't familiar with the [Night Owl Theme](https://github.com/xdrop/night-owl-jetbrains), it is originally a Color Scheme built for VSCode, but just like Material Theme, it has been ported to JetBrains IDEs and has been using the [External Themes API]({{site.baseurl}}/docs/development/external-themes) of the Material Theme to customize the Look And Feel as well.

However since version 1.3.3 a new ability has been added to the plugin, not related with the Night Owl theme, which is the addition of **custom keywords** in some languages (currently JavaScript, TypeScript, Java and Kotlin). This means that from now, color schemes can assign a different color/style for these keywords independently of the color for other keywords.

By the time of writing of this article, those keywords are:
JS/TS:
- debugger
- export, default, module
- null, undefined
- this, super

Java/Kotlin:
- null
- this, super

{% include figure.html content="/screens/customKeywords.png" caption="Custom Keywords" %}

This version is adding these custom keywords to the prebundled color schemes, using the same colors as the ones set by the Material Theme for VSCode plugin.

----

----

## Icon Replacement Framework

Read the article about the [Icon Replacer]({{site.baseurl}}/blog/the-icon-replacer/) for more information.

{% include figure.html content="/icons-folder.svg" caption="Icon Replacement Framework" %}

----

## Material File Icons option

For more information about this, go to the [Icons Settings page]({{site.baseurl}}/docs/configuration/icons-settings#file-icons)

{% include figure.html content="/screens/file-icons.png" caption="File Icons" %}

----

## Styled Directories

For more information about this, go to the [Project View Directories page]({{site.baseurl}}/docs/configuration/project-view-settings#styled-directories)

{% include figure.html content="/screens/styledDirectories.png" caption="Styled Directories" %}

----

Thanks for reading!
