---
layout: post
title: What's new in version 2.5?
tags: [whatsnew, schemes, settings, contrast, indicator, plugins]
category: [release]
toc: true
comments: true
maxwords: 40

---

The [version 2.5]({{ site.baseUrl }}/docs/changelog) of the plugin is introducing a lot of changes, mostly cosmetic rather than functional, as well as its load of bug fixes.

Note that this version marks the passage to the 2018.2 release, meaning that as of this version, development to prior versions of the IDE, including 2018.1, is obsolete. That means that the last version for 2018.1 IDEs is **2.4.2**.

Please make sure to download the latest version to enjoy the new features.

Here's a showcase of what's new in this version:

## Arc Dark Scheme

{% include figure.html content="/screens/arcdarkscheme.png" caption="Arc Dark Scheme" %}

The GTK based theme is now having its own color scheme. The scheme features a mix of saturated and not saturated colors, revolving around the violety-blue tone, with red-brown, green-blue and gold-tin complementary colors. I hope you'll like it!

---
## Themed Title Bar for Macs

The old *"Dark Title Bar"* option has been released to the public in the IDE settings, and is now available inside the _Appearance_ page. As a result the option has been strapped from the Material Theme Settings.

But there's a twist: after meddling with the code, I've found out that we can actually make the titlebar completely **transparent**, and therefore take the same color as the current theme!!!

{% include figure.html content="/screens/titlebarThemed.png" caption="Themed Title Bar Mac" %}

Please note though that this setting overrides the "Dark Window Headers" settings provided by JetBrains!

---
## High Contrast Mode

Another very requested feature is the ability to set a higher contrast for the IDE. There is already a *Contrast Mode* which is providing contrast between different panes of the editor, such as the Trees or the inputs, but this feature actually increases the contrast between the _IDE itself_ and the editor. You can even set High Contrast **when in Contrast Mode**!

{% include figure.html content="/screens/noHighContrast.png" caption="Regular" %}

{% include figure.html content="/screens/highContrast.png" caption="High Contrast" %}

{% include figure.html content="/screens/veryHighContrast.png" caption="Very High Contrast" %}

The High Contrast mode is setting the main background color and contrast color darker, while setting the "Text Color" brighter, such as the color of the tree items. Other colors, such as the main foreground colors or button colors are left unchanged.

The option has been activated by default, since this is a very requested feature from the premices of the plugin! And you can turn it on or off from the _Material Theme Toolbar_.

---
## Selected Tree Indicator Styles

Another cool option is the ability to customize the style of the selected tree indicator.

{% include figure.html content="/screens/selectedTreeIndicator.png" caption="This guy" %}

Now you can have the choice of three styles:
- **Border**, just like this one,
- **None**, e.g. no indicator
- **Dot** - Show a dot

{% include figure.html content="/screens/dotTreeIndicator.png" caption="Dot Tree Indicator" %}

Of course, be it the border or the dot, you can customize its thickness through the option inside the _Project View_ tab in the Settings. You can also switch styles from the Material Theme Toolbar. Oh and the color is of course the accent color.

---
## New Plugins Page

For those who don't follow JetBrains IDE updates, they are currently reworking many of their old components. First there was the _Tool Window Headers_ at the beginning of 2018, then they started reworking the icons (for the best or the worst), and now they are reworking the _Search Everywhere_ and the _Plugins Page_! They are not finished yet but will probably become available when 2018.3 will start.

However if the new Search Everywhere didn't demand a lot of changes in the plugin, on the other hand the Plugins Page required a lot of work as they didn't use resources but instead used many hardcoded colors and icons. But after a lot of work, here is the final result:

{% include figure.html content="/screens/pluginsPage.png" caption="New Plugins Page" %}

Pretty cool eh?

Note: This is still an experimental feature, and it is only accessible from a Registry setting. As such, there could still be bugs using it at the time.

---
## Bug Fixes and Improvements

- The StatusBar has been completely rewritten and is now fully working (as of the Padded StatusBar design), even within multiple opened IDEs.
- The MTLaf classes have been refactored and rewritten, for easier testing and possibly better performance.
- A link to the **Material File Status Colors** have been added to the settings page
- New VCS Icons (cherry pick, intellisort...)

That's it for this release!

**Enjoy !**
