---
layout: docs
title: Project Title Bar Settings
description: Customize the appearance of the IDE frame to better distinguish between projects.
group: configuration
comments: true
toc: true

previous:
  url: '/docs/configuration/features-settings'
  title: Features Settings
next:
  url: '/docs/configuration/other-tweaks-settings'
  title: Other Tweaks
---

This feature is only available for premium users.
{:class='card-panel warn'}

This panel controls settings related to the **Project Title Bar** and the **Project Banner** feature.
{:class='title'}

{% include carbonads.html %}

## Application Frame

Introduced in the New UI (2023), JetBrains IDEs feature a thick, colorful application frame that encompasses the editor and tool windows. This frame contains action buttons, widgets, and other supplementary elements.

By default, this frame remains consistent across all projects, which can make it difficult to distinguish between multiple open projects.

The **Colorize Application Frame** settings allow you to add a unique color to the frame, automatically generated based on the project name. This makes it easier to visually identify and switch between different projects.

{% include figure.html content="/screens/projectFrame/colorTitleFrame.png" caption="Colorize Title Bar" %}

The color is generated by an algorithm that uses the project name to ensure a unique and consistent color for each project.
{:class='card-panel info'}

You can customize which parts of the application frame to colorize. While only the **Title Bar** is colorized by default, you can also enable colorization for:
- **Title Bar**
- **Left Tool Window**
- **Right Tool Window**
- **Status Bar**

{% include figure.html content="/screens/projectFrame/colorAllFrame.png" caption="Colorize All Parts" %}

**Note**: Starting with the Islands UI (2025), JetBrains IDEs also include a built-in **Project Gradient** feature found in `Settings > Appearance > Use project colors in main toolbar`. Enabling any of the *Colorize Application Frame* settings in the Material Theme UI plugin will automatically disable the IDE's native Project Gradient.
{:class='card-panel warn'}

{% include figure.html content="/screens/projectFrame/projectColors.png" caption="Project Colors Settings" %}

----

## Project Widget Settings

This section expose some configuration settings for the native **Project Gradient** feature.

### Gradient Radius

This setting allows you to specify the radius of the gradient. It's 2000px by default.

<div class="masonry" markdown="0">

{% include figure.html content="/screens/projectFrame/600gradient.png" caption="Gradient Radius: 600px" %}

{% include figure.html content="/screens/projectFrame/2000gradient.png" caption="Gradient Radius: 2000px" %}

{% include figure.html content="/screens/projectFrame/4000gradient.png" caption="Gradient Radius: 4000px" %}

</div>